<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Gusted
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025-2026 The FlorisBoard Contributors

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Derived from: https://codeberg.org/forgejo/governance/src/commit/ff60d7ed4b0f3d411e6a0b5ebe5813fcad87b9dd/AIAgreement.md
-->

# AI Policy

We have noticed an influx of Artificial Intelligence (AI) usage in new pull requests and issues. This document should
serve as the guideline to using AI responsibly and correctly when contributing to FlorisBoard.

## Terminology

Software and services that heavily rely on large language model technology (LLMs) to generate their outcomes are
referred to as Artificial Intelligence (AI). Examples of products that fit this definition are: GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT,
Claude Sonnet, DeepSeek, Llama, Mistral, and Gemini.

There's a distinction between general and narrow AI, all of the previous examples fall under general AI as they were not
trained to execute a specific well-defined task. Narrow AI is trained to be used for specific well-defined tasks with a
problem space that is known in advance.

The use of AI agents ("vibe coding") involves an AI generating code changes, such as new features, bug fixes, tests, or
refactors, based on a human's description of what needs to be implemented with little to no human supervision.

## Agreement

1. Use of AI to contribute to FlorisBoard in an autonomous manner (i.e. without human interaction) is prohibited.
2. Use of general AI is allowed when used as an advanced tool to perform research while implementing a feature, when
   used in the same capacity as performing manual research in search engines and forums/documentation.
3. If at any point you used AI's research results or ideas in your contribution, you must ensure that you can submit
   this under the [license of the project](https://github.com/florisboard/florisboard/blob/main/LICENSE), and provide
   attribution to sources where necessary.
4. Accountability for the use of AI in a contribution lies with the person that makes that contribution.
5. All code submitted must have been written by yourself. At no point in time code must have geen generated by AI,
   either via direct prompts or agentic edits. Here is a collection of negative examples that used
   AI: [Slop.md](https://gist.github.com/patrickgold/18d365a7ae03863a00b209b730042ba5)
6. All communications must not have been generated with AI. This includes, but is not limited to, commit messages, pull
   request messages, documentation, code comments and issues (and comments on issues/pull requests).
7. An exception to section 6 is machine translation and tools that only assist with grammar and spelling. You are
   allowed to use AI tools for this, provided these tools are dedicated spellchecking tools ("narrow AI"). Any use of an
   AI-based spellchecking tool must be disclosed in the thread's first comment.
8. Upon violation of this agreement it is up to the discretion of the maintainer team to handle it like a violation
   of [FlorisBoard's Code of Conduct](https://github.com/florisboard/florisboard/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
